Okay, Paul, the tape's rolling.
One comment I wanted to make to you, I was going to ask you if you'd seen the Wall Street Journal article that Peter Dubois wrote about.
I've been waiting for it, but I haven't seen it yet.
Do you have any way to get a copy of it?
I think that David at Timescape is going to send me a copy and ultimately I'll find it in the library, I guess.
If you have easy access to copy, I'd like to have one.
Okay, well I've got one. I'll send it to you. In fact, I wrote him a letter the day that I read it.
He called me at work when he got the letter and he said that he got turned on to Dick by your article in Rolling Stone.
He asked me specifically to say hello to you and thank you for getting him turned on to Phil K. Dick.
Isn't that great? That's very nice to hear.
He was really, he was glad that somebody read it in Wall Street Journal and wrote him a fan letter and I thought it was kind of interesting that Wall Street Journal would even have something about Phil Dick.
And I was kind of blown away by that.
And he was really very nice. I talked to him quite a while and he said to say hi to you.
Well, that's great. What's the same, Dubois?
Dubois, D-U-B-O-I-S, two words. That's my pronunciation. I don't remember how he pronounced it.
That's great.
But I can send you a copy of it. That's no problem.
That's really nice. I got a phone call today from Phil's editor and my friend David Hartwell at Timescape.
And he said that Confessions of the Craft Artist is already being reordered. There's demand for a second printing.
It's selling much, you know, even though it's a small printing, it's selling much better than expected and that they think the Wall Street Journal article is playing a significant part in that.
Well, good deal. I hope people learn more about him.
Okay. The interview that I constructed is a little looser than when I generally talked to authors.
So we'll just probably meander around a little bit, so bear with me.
What I'll first of all ask you is how did you become acquainted with Phil Dick?
I met Phil at the notorious Oakland World Science Fiction Convention in 1968 at the old Claremont Hotel.
And I had been turned on to his work really less than a year before that by some people who are kind of well known in the comic field,
Trina Robbins and Artie Spiegelman, Bob Stewart.
And I wrote about Phil's writing and particularly Bookhouse Readings of Time, which was the game players of Titan, in an underground newspaper called Avatar.
And so when I met Phil briefly at this convention, even though we were both out of our minds because it's very similar,
I gave him a copy of the underground paper with a story about him.
And I guess it excited him as well because with some beginning of some kind of recognition of his then, you know, a few letters,
and so forth, or what he was doing.
And at that time I was just about to move out to California.
So we saw each other several times, again partly through mutual friends, in and around 1969, the beginning of 1970.
And oh, and in 1969 I had the occasion which is recorded somewhere in Valence.
And so for a brief, mad period, I was Timothy Leary's campaign manager when he was just been released from the original thread of going to jail
by winning Supreme Court victories that caused, you know, over a thousand other people to be released within the same week.
The victory was that you couldn't be made to say that to pay the tax on marijuana because it was self-incrimination.
At any rate, Leary got out of jail or out of the thread of it, decided to run for governor, had me be his campaign manager,
and we went across the country and ended up in Montreal visiting John and Yoko where they were having their bed in for peace.
And from John Lennon's hotel room, I found out from Tim actually while we were traveling I bought you a book which had just come out in hardcover.
And Tim Leary turned out also to be a tremendous fan of Philip Dix and he wrote that this time really not very many people knew of him,
except really die hard science fiction fans.
So Leary had read a lot of his work and so from Lennon's hotel suite in Montreal we called Phil, I think on Lennon's nickels,
and he got the chance to rap with Tim Leary telling him what a great fan he was for a half an hour.
So this basically is one of the funny standout incidents particularly for Phil of our early connection.
It was during these years that he was still struggling along and getting all these niggerly advances and had very low prestige,
as you say, except for the hardcore science fiction fans.
Why did he keep it up during those years? Even into the late 70s he was struggling and not making very much money.
What kept him going?
I think a real commitment first of all to the ultimate, I don't know if I want to say seriousness,
but that's really a real commitment to what he was creating and what he wanted to say that always when he's written it's been because he had to write.
And it was deeply true that it became the only way he could make a living.
It's a classic freelance writer situation where even though you're okay if you only get $1,500 for a science fiction novel,
then what you have to do to stay alive is write six of them in a year, which he came pretty close to doing at one point.
I think he did not want to go back and start working in a record store again or basically give up on his career as a writer.
It was not until early in the 1960s that he gave up trying to become a successful mainstream writer.
And even then he didn't give up.
Although it felt like that to him at the time, he just put it away in the back burner having tried very, very hard for 10 years.
The first 10 years in which while he had his first 10 or so science fiction novels published, he wrote a mainstream novel for every science fiction novel he wrote.
So really he was writing two novels for $1,000 advance, one of which would be published in a double novel and the other of which would go from publisher to publisher and just be turned down.
And there are still 10 or 11 of those published.
Any chance they'll ever get published, you think?
I think that it's inevitable.
Bill had mixed opinions about their quality and I haven't read most of them.
But it seems clear, although we may be surprised that there's nothing as polished or as good as Confessions of the Craft Artist, which I think is actually one of his five or six best books.
But because of the interest in Bill's work, it seems inevitable at this point that one way or another they will most or probably all be published within the next 10 or 20 years.
But probably still by small publishers, not by New York publishers.
When I was making up my questions, I notice now that a lot of them have to do with what he wrote about.
And I consequently wanted to ask you a question.
Was he really that way?
Did he really believe that?
And so this is kind of the first one of those.
They may tend to get repetitive.
But in all of his works, there's a mistrust of the senses of what the senses are telling us, a mistrust of reality.
And he seems to be saying that the truth comes in glimpses every once in a while and that our senses can't really see it.
It's kind of revealed to us that he really lived by that.
Was that his philosophy day to day life or is that just his writing style?
Yes, that was unquestionably a part of his daily lifestyle.
I don't know if I would call that aspect of his philosophy.
Although he definitely had one, but it was a very real part of his perception.
And I spoke of the seriousness of his work.
I don't know if I think that a primary purpose, if not the only one, has always been, you know, as a Sagittarius, to appear through the superficial reality around us of what only appears to be real
and to get at what is really real in his view.
And so everything that he wrote was an attempt to do that.
And in his daily life, a lot of issues that would come up that you or perhaps he would describe as being at least partly indicative of a paranoid personality.
But he somehow had an incredible sense of humor and awesome wisdom about it or ability to see himself dismay him.
On the one hand, one of the craziest people that most of his friends ever knew.
And on the other hand, it's just great to have that strength.
In one interview, he said that you had accused him of being precognitive.
Were you serious when you suggested this?
That's interesting. I don't know if I ever saw that interview.
I think that was in the Spice Fiction Review.
Oh, yeah. Yeah, I'm sure that I said something probably, he was referring to something in the Rolling Stone piece, hold on, I'm not sure.
Even though he had a lot of private conversations, it's likely that that's what it was.
He himself probably more strongly than I believe that at least in some ways that he had had incidents of being precognitive.
And I think a good fictional illustration of that is the kind of theme that he has of a man sitting in a city and suddenly seeing himself as a very old man 30 years from now or whatever.
He still used science fiction as a way of disguising actual reality so that it would be palatable.
But he was definitely describing the horrors and humorous fascinations of a world that in almost every case is very real to him.
In some ways he can take less of his books fairly literally.
Was he labeled a science fiction writer only because that's the only category that seemed to fit what he wrote?
Or was he really truly a science fiction writer? I guess it just depends on one's definition.
Well he was truly a science fiction writer and I think that the primary meaning of that is that you belong to the club and you learn by reading science fiction.
And he came up writing stories for all the science fiction magazines and then he started writing novels for Don Walheim at A's and was read only by science fiction readers.
And was certainly aware of as a pan-suitor all the science fiction operating devices and the whole concept of the genre, the sense of those about to read science fiction.
And I think that that's what it means to be a science fiction writer in a lot of ways is to come up from that world and to stay within that world to whatever degree.
At least with part of your work. He definitely is that. He wasn't necessarily satisfied with that. That's easy to understand.
But he did, although he's not a great reader of it after adolescence or whatever, he really loves science fiction.
And the people that he wrote for and the people that he communicated with were all pretty much in that room.
At least, yeah I think he diversified more in the last ten years. But still I would consider him very squarely a science fiction writer.
More so today than Bradbury's. If there's any reason to make comparisons, I consider Bradbury in the end a science fiction and fantasy writer.
In your conversations with him, was he ever wanted to bemoan the fact that science fiction is in the skit-o and the mainstream critics don't like it and that sort of thing?
Or was he pretty much content just to write it and let other people worry about that?
He cared about those things. He always had a very self-deprecating or humble attitude towards his work while at the same time always giving you to know somehow that he really took it as seriously and respected it as much as his most art defense.
What I'm saying is that he really knew how good it was. But he was able to be very humble about it. Now let's see the question that you asked again.
Oh, as far as science fiction being ghettoized, did he bemoan that fact?
He bemoaned it in the sense that he felt that he and other writers in the field that he respects deserved wider attention.
And he would play on, you know, if somebody was concerned about ghettoization, you know, he could give the lifelong interview on the subject as anybody.
What frustrated him, and he was very frustrated by it, was primarily that he didn't have the freedom to write what he called experimental mainstream novels as well.
And of course, it was a tremendous victory for him. Finally, possibly, but he was aware of it before he died when the trans-migration activity after it was published, you know, in hard cover to the first publisher that he submitted it to after writing the novel and so forth.
Or actually before writing the novel.
So it was something that he always wanted to do to write this kind of book. The ghettoization of him as a science fiction writer kept him from it for a long time.
One of his strangest books, according to a lot of people, I've known several people who can't read it, is the Three Stick Mod of Palmer Eldridge.
And I've read interviews where Dick said he had never taken acid before he wrote the book and he says that you verified this. He said he took it and then he read the proofs.
And it scared him. Can you enlighten us on that? Is that pretty much the way it happened?
It's true that he had never taken LSD or I think any psychedelic drugs before he wrote the Three Stick Mod of Palmer Eldridge.
He had had experience with emphaticism.
And as for then taking LSD and reading the galleys, that's possibly true except that it was years before he read the galleys and maybe years before he took the trip also.
But he was afraid of it before he read them. He always claimed anyway to be scared to read the galleys when they sent them to him.
And he didn't finally re-read them up again according to what he always claimed until a number of years later.
But I'm sure there's no question that it scared him. It scared him while he wrote it.
At one point he told an interviewer that he wrote it to kind of exercise a terrifying vision of the man with the stick mod of LSD in the sky while driving to the shack on the California coast of this.
And he was doing his writing.
And it was very real to him and terrifying while he was writing his book while reading it.
I think by the way that it's a brilliant novel.
Oh yeah, it's either number two or number three for me. I still haven't sorted it all out.
But it's been about seven years since I read it too.
I guess probably his best known novel until of late maybe was The Man in the High Castle.
And there he used the Yi Qing before that became famous.
Now it came out in 1962. I didn't read it until 1973.
But I guess that blew a lot of people away who really hadn't heard of the Yi Qing and that sort of thing.
And later he apparently repudiated the Yi Qing.
Yes. He did in several interviews and he stopped using it.
Since I originally was introduced to the Yi Qing by Phil's book and by someone else who had learned about it from Phil's book.
And still he is the Yi Qing.
I never took Phil's repudiation very seriously but he did have the experience that many people have that the book, The Oracle, essentially told him that it wasn't useful for him to keep asking questions of it.
And his feeling and what he said was that it was actually trying to steer him.
In some wrong fashion.
But I think that that kind of incidental effect of The Man in the High Castle is introducing the Chinese Book of Changes to so many people who have been introduced into the whole culture.
It's very fascinating.
Yeah I think he said he finally quit it because it was trying to set him up.
Right. Well he felt that way about a lot of things.
I read that he liked to scan her darkly a lot and that he considered, at the time he wrote that, he considered it a masterpiece.
And then I read that he only made about 3500 bucks off of it.
And that was in the late 70s. He was still getting screwed then.
Well yes although there's some element of distortion there.
I mean it's certainly true that the book didn't get recognized, get it just desserts.
I personally was involved in trying to find another hardcover publisher for it and I took it to one of the best who was expected to be sympathetic and they couldn't make a header tail of the book.
And ultimately double days it was filled with satisfied with, ended up publishing it.
He could find another publisher and later Phantom was unable to find any hardcover publisher for Valus.
So this continued right through his career until the very end when he had the satisfaction of having the divination and the archer come out of hardcover.
So yeah that was very frustrating and the amount of money involved up through Valus really but particularly scanner were very small.
However by that time Phil was doing very well indeed.
In fact he had sort of started to do pretty well at least by his standards during a period where he was still bemoaning to interviewers what a terrible business science fiction was.
Because he kept expecting that the money that was suddenly coming in would blow up, dry up, blow away any day now and he'd be back to the usual properties since he was still only getting $2000 or whatever for each book.
But what actually started happening is because of the quality of his work and the incredible vision that he has and this happened to other American writers that Charles B. Kowski is an interesting current example.
Phil was very popular and very widely respected in other countries particularly France, England, Japan, Germany, Canadian countries, Italy and on and on.
Long before he had any kind of reputation in the United States except as the Hugo winning author of Man in the High Castle and otherwise he was a popular paperbacky author.
And that popularity abroad brought him to a point in the 1960s where suddenly he was earning for say over $15,000 a year and then pretty quickly more than that on a consistent basis with more than half of it coming from Warren's rights to his work.
And of course what had happened had been a very prolific author as well and already by this time he had say 20 or 25 folks behind him and all the time he'd be getting $100 or $200 for this one or that one for this year's royalty earnings in this country and they'd be translated into 20 different languages.
And it added up to quite a good income so that if you took any one of his books and could magically go back over its whole history you'd find out that most of the books that he wrote ended up earning him quite a fair amount of money over the course of his whole life and if he'd carried it on into his estate.
And so he was making all of this, certainly a lot of money by the end of the century so that a book he may have sold for $1500 ultimately over the years brought in 20 or 30 or $40,000 and there's more to come and of course a few of them now are bringing in that moving money.
So there's a kind of a paradoxical situation there but the success that he did have in his later years financially certainly completely came both from the quality of his work and from the incredible hard work that he'd done for so many years while he was serving which resulted in him having a large body of money.
You know, any of us would, nobody wants to die at the age of 53 God knows but anybody would be proud to have the 50 books that Seltek wrote.
How do you account for his popularity in other countries whereas he never really caught on that much until recently here?
I think that this has happened to quite a few very good and very original American writers that in a way they're a person like Phil, his vision is so strong and really so American that it is difficult for people to appreciate here when it's first articulated.
But in Europe or in Japan they'll read these novels and say, my God, you know, here's somebody who's really talking about America. This really has to play over the real thing, you know.
They're impressed because it cuts through cultural assumptions and all that to really paint a very powerful picture of the place and time that the author lives in.
And that's really missing from a lot of writers who might be more popular in their own country at their own era because their work, however good it is in various respects, is also more palatable.
It isn't as demanding in terms of, it's like a biblical prophet who's simply standing up and telling you the truth about what's really going on in this culture and in this world and is usually stoned or ignored for telling the truth.
At the distance I think of Europe or Asia, it was much easier to appreciate the brilliance and humor and intensity with which Bill Dick was telling the truth in these novels where it was only for the hardcore fans here in the United States.
Okay, his last five novels, okay, let's put it this way, his last five science fiction novels that were published accounting transmigration is a science fiction novel.
Just starting with Flow My Tears but really then more with The Scanner of the Darkly but then really the last three valence, divine invasion and transmigration.
That was something really different, totally different from anything we'd seen before and apparently he had a change of life or saw some visions or something that really made him open this up.
Do you perceive this as something new in him or was this just a logical conclusion of where he'd been going to all the time?
Well, it is certainly something new.
I mean he in fact saw these three books, these last three books as a kind of a trilogy even though they have different settings and subjects.
This thematic material is extremely related and it comes out of his own personal experiences and one sort of mystical experience in particular and also out of at least six years of really intensive research into theology and philosophy
and in many ways the spiritual history of human beings at least over the last five thousand years or so which he just totally immersed himself in.
Originally on the pretext that he was doing research for valence which ultimately turned out to be true.
There was a period of about three or four years where he didn't write a novel and we all wondered if he would again and I'm sure he would.
So this extraordinary work particularly the last three books definitely as you say comes from a change of life other than that in the sense that going down to the church and getting religion
there was an awakening in him of writing about as exactly as he describes in valence by an incident I guess in 1975 where he's sitting in his car in a very southern California town Santa Ana
or fortune around there and is kind of zapped by this pink buffing light and nothing was really the same again after that.
He spent a couple of hours in a really a very subtle kind of other world and it was only his sense of the importance of this experience that really gives it its way.
So in other words exactly what he went through the other might have shrugged off who didn't have his particular powers of perception and interest but he became obsessed with the revelations that he had around and his questions about what was that and why.
And ultimately his answers which in effect are his answers and in the sense of the combination of his entire work his answers to tentative or whatever to all the questions he's been asking in all his books what is reality you know what is history what's really going on and why and what is it real nature of forces here and as
somebody quoted Einstein is saying you know I spent with that he could reporter asked him what you say if you could answer if you get the answer to any question.
What question would you ask and I'm not immediately answered is the universe friendly.
And that was certainly a burning question on the mind of Philip K. Dick in every book he ever wrote and there is a kind of extraordinary revelation in the last two or three books in which while still giving that incredibly penetrating ruthless vision of the way things really are and often you know still quite a depressing tone.
Nevertheless comes through with a very strong fiction.
Yes we are ultimately in the hands of or at least strongly under the influence of a basically friendly creature much greater than us that is on our side in a battle that is far from decided.
But you could make this as similar to the Christian myth or myth of almost any other great world religion or as different from it as you wanted to.
You know you can make a great case that hey this man believes you know the straight party line you could make a great case that the heretic whose books should be burned you know by every organized this organized religion in the world.
So that there's no easy conclusion has to because it is so uniquely as vision has to what the meaning of the vision and the information part of his last work is.
But there seems to be no question that he begins to really make some very strong statements about what he finally thinks is going on.
He said in one of the interviews that he was an ardent Christian quote unquote I'm sure he couldn't be mistaken for somebody in the moral majority but what how do you interpret that what was his feelings was he a Christian in what sense of the word.
I think that have you read Timothy Archery yet.
Oh yeah.
Well I think that there's portrait of an art Christian in Bishop Archer in that novel and that that gives at least gives some clues.
As to the nature of that for Phil.
He did have an intense and in some ways kind of secret relationship with Christianity.
And even the church and particularly the Episcopal Church.
Certainly during the last decade of his life.
Although was.
As many things they love hate relationship.
And.
His oldest daughter who is a devout of this.
You know is so far.
Has done almost afraid to to read balance because.
The theological ideas are so radical and.
It's upsetting to her as it would be to anyone.
In any sense with servers within that mainstream and really it should be upsetting to any intelligent person although also fascinating.
So that I think that for most people if they heard that that he was or described as an art Christian they would tend to misunderstand.
And.
It.
The image that you get from that is not a real good representation of Phil although in fact if you really knew him you could say that yes this is exactly true.
This is a man who is very very aware of the Christ story and even you know the language and what's behind it and.
His concerns regarding that are pretty clear in balance and the definition and Timothy are true.
But the.
The question the powerful I think you could see in Timothy Archer also a very powerful like.
You know a willing and uncertainty.
Need to ask questions to doubt.
Even at the same time of experiencing an artist sense of faith.
And very much part of those spiritual life.
Yeah to me he would he was a true agnostic I guess with a capital A because he did distrust the senses and.
You can't prove it so so why is it important that that aside from philosophical theological beliefs that that to me is agnosticism really.
I think that you know there is a profound spirituality in that kind of agnosticism with with a capital A.
And that.
His work I believe would be and probably already are welcomed by intensely religious people of a theological sense.
I mean anyone of real faith who really is interested in the great question.
Is going to be delighted ultimately to discover.
These outrageous novels like the Divine Invasion and the Transmigration and Timothy Archer which really ask passionate questions and care about the answer.
In that whole sphere.
Okay I'm bouncing around among these three so which which is understandable I hope that that vision that he had has intrigued me a lot I read.
I guess the text of it in the Platts interview and then I before I read Valis then I read Valis and then I read the letter that Ursula McGuinn wrote to fill about how she was afraid he was going off the deep end and that sort of thing and his reply.
Kind of kind of made me think well you know is this a fictitious device or did this really happen and I really got confused and hence more interested in it.
I guess it really did happen or that's how he perceived it anyway.
It's totally subjective experience you know even if he describes it right it's something that that happened to him.
You know in fact one of the issues that comes up for him is how do you prove something like that you know to yourself that's much than anyone else.
But absolutely no question that that it was very realistic and that you know the horse lover that character in Valis is as real as a self portrait as you can find.
I just got my the new locus today I get a second class so maybe it's the old locus but in the books in print in the back they list the transmigration of Timothy Archer and I guess it's Charlie Brown that reviewed it but he said it's
ostensibly based on Bishop Pike but the reader will notice that it's really Phil that's the lead character.
Is that true? Is Bishop Pike really Phil? Was that him doing all this searching?
Well it is Bishop Pike.
I'm sorry I guess I should say it was Bishop Archer filled it to clarify that.
Bishop Timothy Archer is unambiguously a portrait of Bishop James Pike of the diocese of Northern California so Phil knew.
Now if you want to take that a step further it's perfectly reasonable for the reviewer and locus to say that it's obviously Phil in the sense that one can certainly make a case that all the characters in all those books are himself.
I think that's a meaningful thing to say. It is very much like different sides of themselves having conversations with each other and the conversations are very alive as they happen.
But in that sense certainly the concerns while they reflect Phil's sense of James Pike are also very much a protection of his own concerns that is the best that Pike cares about and wonders about.
So it's a reasonable statement but I think that at the same time that doesn't mean it's not also a portrait of Romanic about Pike. It is possible for an author to do both those things.
What was Phil's relationship with Pike? Were they close friends or just acquaintances?
What is the relationship with Pike?
I don't totally know. My impression is that they were fairly close for a period.
And in terms of the amount of time spent together or whatever I doubt that there was really a lot of it but I think that the closeness is probably very real on both sides over several years.
Phil's wife, Nancy, her mother is the character I forgot her name in the novel Timothy Archer who is the Bishop's mistress.
So that was how Phil happened to know Jim Pike.
Although he was I think interested, you know, inevitably would have been interested in giving actual concerns, interests, you know, with both theologically and in the paranormal and so forth and personality.
And it was a thrill for Phil to know the man and have the friendship and fascinated conversations with him.
But it was this connection through his wife's mother which actually stepped out of it.
Which ends up being, you know, in large part the basis of the sort of insight given in the novel.
The lead character really is not the official type that is the protagonist, is Angel.
And there's an even more fascinating question is is Angel Phil?
Yes, certainly she is and yet I like Ursula Gwynne's comments about what a beautiful character Phil has created in Angel Archer and how much Ursula comes to care about her.
And again I think that while it's perfectly right to say that this character Angel is in many ways, you know, phil dick, it's also right to say that she's a completely creative character, it's very powerful.
And you know, it's a true female character which is quite an accomplishment.
And Phil felt that and said that he bottled her Angel after his daughter's life.
That was my next question, who was she?
But I was really intrigued with the internal dialogue, her internal dialogue, Angels, when she was thinking about herself and how she went on and on.
It's almost stream of consciousness and I figured there was some of him in there but that was almost to me the best part of the book was that Angel clearly made the book to me.
I heard other people comment that as well.
That's great. That's wonderful. He would be delighted to hear that.
I've read the book in a fit of passion which is the way that you always write although I've been writing about it for a long time.
Last spring, the spring of 1981, and about the actual writing was in a period of time, probably less than six weeks.
I know that he said he wrote incredible amounts of words, or lots of words and incredibly short amounts of times.
I didn't know if that one was one of those or not.
Yeah, almost all of his novels are, even though some of them go through two drafts, but the actual work, including the work of writing a new draft or whatever, after a tremendous amount of preparation, meditation, you know.
The actual work was in most cases done in a very short span of time, as little as three weeks in some cases.
You cannot distinguish the gorgeously written, supposedly more literary novels like, I don't know, I'd say, Ubic and A Eat the Confessions.
And the ones that he had published in the hardcover through Double Day.
You can't really distinguish them by the process of writing from the ones that were written for A's and that in some cases appear to be more tossed off.
I think that there is a distinction, you know, that he's more relaxed and not trying to achieve as much on some levels.
In a novel, I'd say, our friends from France say, although his heart is very much there, but I'm just saying that interestingly, I think you'd find in most cases the actual process of writing a typing isn't that different.
Probably in the case of a Ubic or a man in the high cast were obviously balanced or trans-migration.
The years of meditating on the subject and on the problem with the novel and how are you going to write it, and a lot of questions that don't become answered until he starts writing.
There was a lot more of that process in the more work through novels.
And some of the lighter ones are ones that, while he wrote them in the same, you know, three to six weeks, he hadn't really thought about them before.
So they're more like spontaneous stuff.
And maybe not as deep.
Although then you have this experience, you know, so there's books where it looks like Frostade or many of the A's books, similar, whatever you know, will suddenly run incredibly deep.
Whether this be a part of it or you'll have some experience reading it, that's extremely powerful.
And it's harder in that sense to divide yourself into two greater factors.